README.md, before:

# BACI

BACI ("Bavarian Advanced Computational Initiative") is a parallel multiphysics research code
to address a plethora of physical problems by means of _computational mechanics_.

Large parts of BACI are based on finite element methods (FEM),
but alternative discretization methods such as discontinuous Galerkin methods (DG),
particle methods and mesh-free methods have also been successfully integrated.
The research software is implemented throughout in object-oriented programming (C++)
using modern software design and is parallelized with MPI for distributed memory hardware architectures.

## Contents

1. [Getting Up and Running with BACI](#getting-up-and-running-with-baci)
   1. [Set-up LRZ GitLab account](#set-up-lrz-gitlab-account)
   1. [Configure Git](#configure-git)
   1. [Clone the Repository](#clone-the-repository)
   1. [Set-Up the Environment](#set-up-the-environment)
   1. [Configure and Build](#configure-and-build)
   1. [Prepare and Run Simulations](#prepare-and-run-simulations)
   1. [Updating BACI](#updating-baci)
1. [Where to Ask Questions](#where-to-ask-questions)
1. [Contributing](#contributing)
1. [License](#license)

## Getting Up and Running with BACI

### Set-up LRZ GitLab account

1. Register an account on [LRZ GitLab](www.gitlab.lrz.de).

    **Important:** Choose a recognizable user name. It is recommended to set it to: first letter of first name followed by last name, all lowercase, e.g., Max Mustermann -> mmustermann.

    > **Note:** Your username is a unique namespace related to your user ID. Changing it can have unintended side effects. See [how redirects will behave](https://gitlab.lrz.de/help/user/project/index.md#redirects-when-changing-repository-paths) for details.

1. Go to your GitLab profile settings and update your profile settings, in particular your
    * First and last name
    * Institute Email Address
1. Select proper notification settings. We recommend *Watching* or *On mention* to guarantee that you don't miss any important developments and discussions.
1. Add your public SSH key found in `~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub` to your user profile.

Our Wiki provides [detailed setup instructions for your GitLab account](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/wikis/Set-up-and-Configure-your-GitLab-Account).

[↑ Contents](#contents)

### Clone the Repository

```bash
cd <someBaseDir>
mkdir <sourceDir>
git clone git@gitlab.lrz.de:baci/baci.git <sourceDir>
cd <sourceDir>
```

where `<someBaseDir>` is some directory on your machine and `<sourceDir>` will contain the BACI source code.
You can choose names and locations of these directories freely.

Your directory tree should look like the following:
```
<someBaseDir>/
  <sourceDir>
```

[↑ Contents](#contents)

### Configure Git

A Git version >= 2.9 is required. <!-- We need at least this version to be able to configure the path to the git-hooks as outlined below. -->
Consult the official [Git documentation](www.git-scm.org) to obtain a more recent Git installation if necessary.

1. Set your username to your full name, i.e., first name followed by last name,
and your email address to your institute email address with the following commands:

    ```bash
    git config --global user.name "<Firstname> <Lastname>"
    git config --global user.email <instituteEmailAddress>
    ```

1. Set a default text editor that will be used whenever you need to write a message in Git. To set `kwrite` as your default text editor, type:

    ```bash
    git config --global core.editor kwrite
    ```

    > **Note:** Another popular choice is `vim`.

1. Set path to our common set of `git-hooks`. After [cloning the repository](#clone-the-repository) into the directory `<someBaseDir>/<sourceDir>`, run

    ```bash
    cd <someBaseDir>/<sourceDir>
    git config core.hooksPath ./utilities/code_checks/
    ```

    > **Note:** Before actually executing these command, first [setup your LRZ GitLab account](#set-up-lrz-gitlab) and [clone the repository](#clone-the-repository).

Our Wiki provides a [detailed setup guide for your local git configuration](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/wikis/Set-up-Git).

[↑ Contents](#contents)

### Set-up the Environment

BACI heavily relies on the [Trilinos project](www.trilinos.org).

Some further third party libraries (TPLs) are mandatory, e.g.
- Parmetis (recommended verions: 3.1.1)
- SuiteSparse (recommended version: 3.3.0)
- SuperLUDist (mandatory version: 2.5 (due to Trilinos/Amesos))
- Qhull (recommended version: 2012.1)
- CLN (recommened version: 1.3.4)

and some are optional, e.g.
- FFTW

Often, a pre-compiled version of Trilinos and set of TPLs is available at your institute.
Look into the build configuration files in ```buildconfig/``` or ask your colleagues for further information.

[↑ Contents](#contents)

### Configure and Build

#### Create the Build Directory

BACI enforces an out-of-source build, i.e. your build directory may not be located inside the source code directory.

```bash
cd <someBaseDir>
mkdir <buildDir>
cd <buildDir>
```

where `<buildDir>` is your build directory.

#### Configure

Run

```bash
cd <someBaseDir>/<buildDir>
<someBaseDir>/<sourceDir>/do-configure --config=<path/to/build-configuration-file.config> | tee config$(date +%y%m%d%H%M%N).log
```

> **Note:**  When you see `command |& tee something$(date +%y%m%d%H%M%N).log`, that is just a means of running a command and sending the output both to the screen and to a timestamped log file.  This is by no means necessary, but if you run into problems, having these timestamped log files can be quite useful in debugging what's gone wrong.

A build configuration file needs to be passed to the configure script via the command line argument `--config`, as indicated above.
Configuration files for a bunch of supported system environments are located in `<someBaseDir>/<sourceDir>/buildconfig/`. For more information on the provided configuration files please refer to [Configure BACI with correct configuration file](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/wikis/Configure-BACI-with-correct-configuration-file).

#### Build

```bash
make -j <numProcs> full |& tee make$(date +%y%m%d%H%M%N).log
```

where `<numProcs>` is the number of processors you want to use.

> **Note:**  After the first build, it is not always necessary to rerun the configure script &mdash; only the `make` command is required.  Reconfiguring is required when new files have been added and no changes are made to the `CMakeLists.txt` files.  If changes are made to a `CMakeLists.txt` file, then calling `make` will *automatically* reconfigure as part of the build process.

#### Run the Tests

To verify that the build was successful, run the minimal set of tests via
```bash
ctest -L minimal
```

or all tests via
```bash
ctest
```

[↑ Contents](#contents)

### Prepare and Run Simulations

After sucessfully building BACI, the executable `baci-release` is located in your build directory `<buildDir>/`. 
It needs to be invoked together with an input (`.dat`) file via
```bash
<buildDir>/baci-release <jobName>.dat <outputName>
```

where `<jobName>` is the name of the simulation file and `<outputName>` denotes the name of the corresponding output file(s). 
A collection of working `.dat` files is located under `<sourceDir>/Input/`. 
  
In case you used the binary output option, your simulation results can be accessed using the `post_processor` 
script which is located in the build directory. 
Run 
```bash
<buildDir>/post_processor --file=<outputName> [options]
```
on the result (`.control`) file of your simulation to make the accessible for visualization tools like `Paraview`. 
Type
```bash
<buildDir>/post_processor --help
```
to list all options that are available to filter the output.

If you are using runtime ouput, the simulation results are directly accessible in vtk format. 

The input (`.dat`) file can be created using the `pre_exodus` script which is also located in the BACI build directory. 
The script is invoked via
```bash
<buildDir>/pre_exodus --exo=<problem>.e --head=<problem>.head --bc=<problem>.bc --dat=<inputFileName>.dat
```

where `<problem>.e` is an exodus file containing the mesh information of your problem, 
the `<problem>.bc` file contains the boundary conditions and element information and 
the `<problem>.head` file contains the remaining simulation settings. 
Prototypes of the `.head` and `.bc` files can be obtained by omitting the `--head=...` and `--bc=...` options in the `pre_exodus` call.
These prototype files (`default.head` and `default.bc`) contain all currently implemented conditions, element types, material models, 
simulation settings etc....    

[↑ Contents](#contents)

### Updating BACI

Any time you need to grab the latest from BACI:
```bash
cd <someBaseDir>/<sourceDir>
git checkout master
git pull
```

[↑ Contents](#contents)

## Where to Ask Questions

If you need help with BACI, feel free to ask questions by [creating a GitLab issue](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/issues).  Use an issue template from the dropdown menu to pre-populate the *Description* field, giving you instructions on submitting the issue.

[↑ Contents](#contents)

## Contributing

If you're interested in contributing to BACI, we welcome your collaboration. Before your start, configure your [local Git](#set-up-git) and your [LRZ GitLab account](#set-up-lrz-gitlab). Read [our contributing guidelines](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) carefully for details on our workflow, submitting merge-requests, etc.

[↑ Contents](#contents)

## License

ADD A LICENSE!!

[↑ Contents](#contents)

Commit message:

Add info on referencing Baci in publications

README.md, after:

# BACI

BACI ("Bavarian Advanced Computational Initiative") is a parallel multiphysics research code
to address a plethora of physical problems by means of _computational mechanics_.

Large parts of BACI are based on finite element methods (FEM),
but alternative discretization methods such as discontinuous Galerkin methods (DG),
particle methods and mesh-free methods have also been successfully integrated.
The research software is implemented throughout in object-oriented programming (C++)
using modern software design and is parallelized with MPI for distributed memory hardware architectures.

## Contents

1. [Getting Up and Running with BACI](#getting-up-and-running-with-baci)
   1. [Set-up LRZ GitLab account](#set-up-lrz-gitlab-account)
   1. [Configure Git](#configure-git)
   1. [Clone the Repository](#clone-the-repository)
   1. [Set-Up the Environment](#set-up-the-environment)
   1. [Configure and Build](#configure-and-build)
   1. [Prepare and Run Simulations](#prepare-and-run-simulations)
   1. [Updating BACI](#updating-baci)
1. [Where to Ask Questions](#where-to-ask-questions)
1. [Contributing](#contributing)
1. [How to cite Baci](#how-to-cite-baci)
1. [License](#license)

## Getting Up and Running with BACI

### Set-up LRZ GitLab account

1. Register an account on [LRZ GitLab](www.gitlab.lrz.de).

    **Important:** Choose a recognizable user name. It is recommended to set it to: first letter of first name followed by last name, all lowercase, e.g., Max Mustermann -> mmustermann.

    > **Note:** Your username is a unique namespace related to your user ID. Changing it can have unintended side effects. See [how redirects will behave](https://gitlab.lrz.de/help/user/project/index.md#redirects-when-changing-repository-paths) for details.

1. Go to your GitLab profile settings and update your profile settings, in particular your
    * First and last name
    * Institute Email Address
1. Select proper notification settings. We recommend *Watching* or *On mention* to guarantee that you don't miss any important developments and discussions.
1. Add your public SSH key found in `~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub` to your user profile.

Our Wiki provides [detailed setup instructions for your GitLab account](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/wikis/Set-up-and-Configure-your-GitLab-Account).

[↑ Contents](#contents)

### Clone the Repository

```bash
cd <someBaseDir>
mkdir <sourceDir>
git clone git@gitlab.lrz.de:baci/baci.git <sourceDir>
cd <sourceDir>
```

where `<someBaseDir>` is some directory on your machine and `<sourceDir>` will contain the BACI source code.
You can choose names and locations of these directories freely.

Your directory tree should look like the following:
```
<someBaseDir>/
  <sourceDir>
```

[↑ Contents](#contents)

### Configure Git

A Git version >= 2.9 is required. <!-- We need at least this version to be able to configure the path to the git-hooks as outlined below. -->
Consult the official [Git documentation](www.git-scm.org) to obtain a more recent Git installation if necessary.

1. Set your username to your full name, i.e., first name followed by last name,
and your email address to your institute email address with the following commands:

    ```bash
    git config --global user.name "<Firstname> <Lastname>"
    git config --global user.email <instituteEmailAddress>
    ```

1. Set a default text editor that will be used whenever you need to write a message in Git. To set `kwrite` as your default text editor, type:

    ```bash
    git config --global core.editor kwrite
    ```

    > **Note:** Another popular choice is `vim`.

1. Set path to our common set of `git-hooks`. After [cloning the repository](#clone-the-repository) into the directory `<someBaseDir>/<sourceDir>`, run

    ```bash
    cd <someBaseDir>/<sourceDir>
    git config core.hooksPath ./utilities/code_checks/
    ```

    > **Note:** Before actually executing these command, first [setup your LRZ GitLab account](#set-up-lrz-gitlab) and [clone the repository](#clone-the-repository).

Our Wiki provides a [detailed setup guide for your local git configuration](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/wikis/Set-up-Git).

[↑ Contents](#contents)

### Set-up the Environment

BACI heavily relies on the [Trilinos project](www.trilinos.org).

Some further third party libraries (TPLs) are mandatory, e.g.
- Parmetis (recommended verions: 3.1.1)
- SuiteSparse (recommended version: 3.3.0)
- SuperLUDist (mandatory version: 2.5 (due to Trilinos/Amesos))
- Qhull (recommended version: 2012.1)
- CLN (recommened version: 1.3.4)

and some are optional, e.g.
- FFTW

Often, a pre-compiled version of Trilinos and set of TPLs is available at your institute.
Look into the build configuration files in ```buildconfig/``` or ask your colleagues for further information.

[↑ Contents](#contents)

### Configure and Build

#### Create the Build Directory

BACI enforces an out-of-source build, i.e. your build directory may not be located inside the source code directory.

```bash
cd <someBaseDir>
mkdir <buildDir>
cd <buildDir>
```

where `<buildDir>` is your build directory.

#### Configure

Run

```bash
cd <someBaseDir>/<buildDir>
<someBaseDir>/<sourceDir>/do-configure --config=<path/to/build-configuration-file.config> | tee config$(date +%y%m%d%H%M%N).log
```

> **Note:**  When you see `command |& tee something$(date +%y%m%d%H%M%N).log`, that is just a means of running a command and sending the output both to the screen and to a timestamped log file.  This is by no means necessary, but if you run into problems, having these timestamped log files can be quite useful in debugging what's gone wrong.

A build configuration file needs to be passed to the configure script via the command line argument `--config`, as indicated above.
Configuration files for a bunch of supported system environments are located in `<someBaseDir>/<sourceDir>/buildconfig/`. For more information on the provided configuration files please refer to [Configure BACI with correct configuration file](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/wikis/Configure-BACI-with-correct-configuration-file).

#### Build

```bash
make -j <numProcs> full |& tee make$(date +%y%m%d%H%M%N).log
```

where `<numProcs>` is the number of processors you want to use.

> **Note:**  After the first build, it is not always necessary to rerun the configure script &mdash; only the `make` command is required.  Reconfiguring is required when new files have been added and no changes are made to the `CMakeLists.txt` files.  If changes are made to a `CMakeLists.txt` file, then calling `make` will *automatically* reconfigure as part of the build process.

#### Run the Tests

To verify that the build was successful, run the minimal set of tests via
```bash
ctest -L minimal
```

or all tests via
```bash
ctest
```

[↑ Contents](#contents)

### Prepare and Run Simulations

After sucessfully building BACI, the executable `baci-release` is located in your build directory `<buildDir>/`. 
It needs to be invoked together with an input (`.dat`) file via
```bash
<buildDir>/baci-release <jobName>.dat <outputName>
```

where `<jobName>` is the name of the simulation file and `<outputName>` denotes the name of the corresponding output file(s). 
A collection of working `.dat` files is located under `<sourceDir>/Input/`. 
  
In case you used the binary output option, your simulation results can be accessed using the `post_processor` 
script which is located in the build directory. 
Run 
```bash
<buildDir>/post_processor --file=<outputName> [options]
```
on the result (`.control`) file of your simulation to make the accessible for visualization tools like `Paraview`. 
Type
```bash
<buildDir>/post_processor --help
```
to list all options that are available to filter the output.

If you are using runtime ouput, the simulation results are directly accessible in vtk format. 

The input (`.dat`) file can be created using the `pre_exodus` script which is also located in the BACI build directory. 
The script is invoked via
```bash
<buildDir>/pre_exodus --exo=<problem>.e --head=<problem>.head --bc=<problem>.bc --dat=<inputFileName>.dat
```

where `<problem>.e` is an exodus file containing the mesh information of your problem, 
the `<problem>.bc` file contains the boundary conditions and element information and 
the `<problem>.head` file contains the remaining simulation settings. 
Prototypes of the `.head` and `.bc` files can be obtained by omitting the `--head=...` and `--bc=...` options in the `pre_exodus` call.
These prototype files (`default.head` and `default.bc`) contain all currently implemented conditions, element types, material models, 
simulation settings etc....    

[↑ Contents](#contents)

### Updating BACI

Any time you need to grab the latest from BACI:
```bash
cd <someBaseDir>/<sourceDir>
git checkout master
git pull
```

[↑ Contents](#contents)

## Where to Ask Questions

If you need help with BACI, feel free to ask questions by [creating a GitLab issue](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/issues).  Use an issue template from the dropdown menu to pre-populate the *Description* field, giving you instructions on submitting the issue.

[↑ Contents](#contents)

## Contributing

If you're interested in contributing to BACI, we welcome your collaboration. Before your start, configure your [local Git](#set-up-git) and your [LRZ GitLab account](#set-up-lrz-gitlab). Read [our contributing guidelines](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) carefully for details on our workflow, submitting merge-requests, etc.

[↑ Contents](#contents)

## How to cite Baci

Whenever you mention BACI in some sort of scientific document/publication/presentation, please cite BACI as follows:

```
BACI: A Comprehensive Multi-Physics Simulation Framework, https://baci.pages.gitlab.lrz.de/website
```

Remember: It is good scientific practice to include the date, when you've visisted that website, into the citation. It's up to you (and your advisor) to include the date, depending on the type of publication.

[↑ Contents](#contents)

## License

ADD A LICENSE!!

[↑ Contents](#contents)
