.gitlab/merge_request_templates/MERGE_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

<!--
Provide a general summary of your changes in the Title above. Use the prefix "WIP:" if this is a work-in-progress merge request.
-->

<!--
Note that anything between these delimiters is a comment that will not appear in the merge request description once created.
-->

<!--
Assignees:  If you know anyone who should likely handle bringing this merge request to completion or who should review it, select them from the Assignees drop-down on the right.
-->

<!--
Labels: Update the label of the issue(s) addressed by this merge request to "Under Review".
-->

## Description and Context
<!--
Provide a brief and concise description of your proposed change. Why is this change required?  What problem does it solve?
-->

## Related Issues and Merge Requests
<!--
If applicable, let us know how this merge request is related to any other open issues or pull requests:
-->
* Closes
* Blocks
* Is blocked by
* Follows
* Precedes
* Related to
* Part of
* Composed of

## How Has This Been Tested?
<!--
Choose from these suggestions if applicable and fill the missing options.
Feel free to provide further information if useful or necessary.
-->
- [ ] I ran `ctest -L minimal` on my workstation.
- [ ] I ran `ctest -R {...}` / `ctest -E {...}` / `ctest -E {...} -R {...}` on my workstation.
- [ ] I ran a full release pipeline on GitLab.
- [ ] I ran the following specialised pipelines (if applicable and necessary): {...}

## Checklist
<!--
Go over all the following points, and put an `x` in all the boxes that apply. If you are unsure about any of these, please ask; we are here to help.
-->
- [ ] My commit messages mention the appropriate GitLab issue numbers.
- [ ] My change requires a change to the documentation.
- [ ] I have updated the Doxygen documentation accordingly.
- [ ] I have read the [code contribution guidelines](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) for this project.
- [ ] My code adheres to our [coding guidelines](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/wikis/Baci-development-guidelines).
- [ ] I have added as (few,) small and fast tests as possible to cover my changes.
- [ ] All new and existing tests passed.
- [ ] These changes maintain backwards compatibility.

## Additional Information
<!--
Is there anything else your fellow developers need to know in evaluating this merge request?
Feel free to add supplementary material here (e.g. screen output, log files, screenshots)
-->

## Interested Parties
<!--
If there's anyone you think should be looped in on this merge request, feel free to @mention them here. In particular, @mention possible reviewers as well as the maintainers of all the files you've touched.
-->

Possible reviewers:

Maintainers of modified files:

Other interested parties:

Commit message:

MR template: add comment on "Delete source branch"

.gitlab/merge_request_templates/MERGE_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

<!--
Provide a general summary of your changes in the Title above. Use the prefix "WIP:" if this is a work-in-progress merge request.
-->

<!--
Note that anything between these delimiters is a comment that will not appear in the merge request description once created.
-->

<!--
Assignees:  If you know anyone who should likely handle bringing this merge request to completion or who should review it, select them from the Assignees drop-down on the right.
-->

<!--
Labels: Update the label of the issue(s) addressed by this merge request to "Under Review".
-->

<!--
Check the box "Delete source branch when merge request is accepted." when opening the merge request in order to automatically delete the feature branch from GitLab.com after it has been merged.  Note that this will just remove the feature branch from GitLab, but not from your local clone of the repository.
-->

## Description and Context
<!--
Provide a brief and concise description of your proposed change. Why is this change required?  What problem does it solve?
-->

## Related Issues and Merge Requests
<!--
If applicable, let us know how this merge request is related to any other open issues or pull requests:
-->
* Closes
* Blocks
* Is blocked by
* Follows
* Precedes
* Related to
* Part of
* Composed of

## How Has This Been Tested?
<!--
Choose from these suggestions if applicable and fill the missing options.
Feel free to provide further information if useful or necessary.
-->
- [ ] I ran `ctest -L minimal` on my workstation.
- [ ] I ran `ctest -R {...}` / `ctest -E {...}` / `ctest -E {...} -R {...}` on my workstation.
- [ ] I ran a full release pipeline on GitLab.
- [ ] I ran the following specialised pipelines (if applicable and necessary): {...}

## Checklist
<!--
Go over all the following points, and put an `x` in all the boxes that apply. If you are unsure about any of these, please ask; we are here to help.
-->
- [ ] My commit messages mention the appropriate GitLab issue numbers.
- [ ] My change requires a change to the documentation.
- [ ] I have updated the Doxygen documentation accordingly.
- [ ] I have read the [code contribution guidelines](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) for this project.
- [ ] My code adheres to our [coding guidelines](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/wikis/Baci-development-guidelines).
- [ ] I have added as (few,) small and fast tests as possible to cover my changes.
- [ ] All new and existing tests passed.
- [ ] These changes maintain backwards compatibility.

## Additional Information
<!--
Is there anything else your fellow developers need to know in evaluating this merge request?
Feel free to add supplementary material here (e.g. screen output, log files, screenshots)
-->

## Interested Parties
<!--
If there's anyone you think should be looped in on this merge request, feel free to @mention them here. In particular, @mention possible reviewers as well as the maintainers of all the files you've touched.
-->

Possible reviewers:

Maintainers of modified files:

Other interested parties:
