.gitlab/issue_templates/FAREWELL.md, before:

<!-- Set default label -->
/label "type::member"

<!---
Fill the Title field above with "Farewell FirstName LastName".
-->

<!---
Note that anything between these delimiters is a comment that will not appear in the issue description once created. Click on the Preview tab to see what everything will look like when you submit.
-->

<!---
Assignee: Assign this issue to the leaving developer.
-->

<!---
Labels: Assign the "team" label.
-->

## Many thanks for all your contributions to BACI!

We wish you all the best for the future and hope to stay in contact (to bother you with the bugs you left behind :stuck_out_tongue_winking_eye:).

<!---
Feel free to leave a personal email address if you want to stay reachable.
-->


## Checklist for the leaving team member
<!---
Tick the box as soon as a task is completed (either by inserting an "x" in edit mode or clicking on it in view mode).
-->
- [ ] Re-assign source and input file maintainership to another developer


## Checklist for the BACI group owners
<!---
Tick the box as soon as a task is completed (either by inserting an "x" in edit mode or clicking on it in view mode).
-->
- [ ] Review open issues assigned to the leaving team member and re-assign or unassign.
- [ ] Remove leaving team member from the GitLab group baci_developers.
- [ ] If applicable, remove the leaving team member from the GitLab group baci_maintainers.
- [ ] If applicable, remove the leaving team member from the list of maintainers in #336.
- [ ] Add leaving team member to the GitLab group baci_collaborators.
- [ ] Update the [baci_developers.json](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/blob/master/utilities/git_hooks/baci_developers.json) file of all valid file maintainers.

## Interested Parties
<!---
If there's anyone particular you think should be notified, feel free to @mention them here.
-->
@baci/baci_developers

Commit message:

Remove baci_developers.json
This commit removes the baci_developers.json as this is not needed any
more. Also corresponding sections in FAREWELL.md and ONBOARDING.md are
removed.

Closes #521

.gitlab/issue_templates/FAREWELL.md, after:

<!-- Set default label -->
/label "type::member"

<!---
Fill the Title field above with "Farewell FirstName LastName".
-->

<!---
Note that anything between these delimiters is a comment that will not appear in the issue description once created. Click on the Preview tab to see what everything will look like when you submit.
-->

<!---
Assignee: Assign this issue to the leaving developer.
-->

<!---
Labels: Assign the "team" label.
-->

## Many thanks for all your contributions to BACI!

We wish you all the best for the future and hope to stay in contact (to bother you with the bugs you left behind :stuck_out_tongue_winking_eye:).

<!---
Feel free to leave a personal email address if you want to stay reachable.
-->


## Checklist for the leaving team member
<!---
Tick the box as soon as a task is completed (either by inserting an "x" in edit mode or clicking on it in view mode).
-->
- [ ] Change ownership of source and input files to another developer or a team.


## Checklist for the BACI group owners
<!---
Tick the box as soon as a task is completed (either by inserting an "x" in edit mode or clicking on it in view mode).
-->
- [ ] Review open issues assigned to the leaving team member and re-assign or unassign.
- [ ] Remove leaving team member from the GitLab group baci_developers.
- [ ] If applicable, remove the leaving team member from the GitLab group baci_maintainers.
- [ ] If applicable, remove the leaving team member from the list of maintainers in #336.
- [ ] Add leaving team member to the GitLab group baci_collaborators.

## Interested Parties
<!---
If there's anyone particular you think should be notified, feel free to @mention them here.
-->
@baci/baci_developers
