.gitlab/issue_templates/ONBOARDING.md, before:

<!---
Fill the Title field above with "Onboarding FirstName LastName".
-->

<!---
Note that anything between these delimiters is a comment that will not appear in the issue description once created. Click on the Preview tab to see what everything will look like when you submit.
-->

<!---
Assignee: Assign this issue to the new developer.
-->

<!---
Labels: Assign the "team" label.
-->

## Welcome to the BACI development team!

We're happy to have you on board and created this onboarding issue to get you started. Its main purpose is to guide you through your first steps and introduce you to other developers working on similar topics. Take your time to work through the checklist below and tell us a little bit about yourself by filling the following introduction section (click on the pencil symbol above to edit this description). Finally, please let us know if you have any ideas how to improve this onboarding procedure and the provided documentation.


## Brief introduction of the new team member
<!---
This is of course completely up to you. Feel free to share with us watever you like.
However, to give you some inspiration, here is a list of things that might be of interest for others:
Your name, affiliation, office location, background (field of study, prior experience with coding), field of research (fluid/solid/coupled problems) and favorite soccer club (just joking).
-->
To be filled by the new team member.


## Checklist for the new team member
<!---
Tick the box as soon as a task is completed (either by inserting an "x" in edit mode or clicking on it in view mode).
-->
- [x] Register an account on LRZ GitLab (you wouldn't be here without it :wink:)
- [ ] Sign the BACI user agreement
- [ ] Read through our [README](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/blob/master/README.md) and follow the instructions to
   - [ ] Set up your GitLab account
   - [ ] Get the code
   - [ ] Configure git including the git hooks
   - [ ] Build the code and run some tests for verification
- [ ] Read through our [CONTRIBUTING GUIDELINES](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) and
  - [ ] Set up your Integrated Development Environment (IDE)
- [ ] Browse through some open issues and merge requests to get a first impression
- [ ] Browse through the [Wiki pages](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/wikis/home) containing a loose collection of further helpful information


## Checklist for the BACI group owners
<!---
Tick the box as soon as a task is completed (either by inserting an "x" in edit mode or clicking on it in view mode).
-->
- [ ] Add new team member to the GitLab group baci_developers
- [ ] Update the [baci_developers.json](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/blob/master/utilities/git_hooks/baci_developers.json) file of all valid file maintainers
- [ ] Assign and @mention an experienced "Baci buddy" to help with git, the first issue, first commit, ...


## Interested Parties
<!---
If there's anyone particular you think should be notified, feel free to @mention them here.
-->
@baci/baci_developers

Commit message:

Onboarding: add check-box for brief introduction
Related to #265
Follows !262

.gitlab/issue_templates/ONBOARDING.md, after:

<!---
Fill the Title field above with "Onboarding FirstName LastName".
-->

<!---
Note that anything between these delimiters is a comment that will not appear in the issue description once created. Click on the Preview tab to see what everything will look like when you submit.
-->

<!---
Assignee: Assign this issue to the new developer.
-->

<!---
Labels: Assign the "team" label.
-->

## Welcome to the BACI development team!

We're happy to have you on board and created this onboarding issue to get you started. Its main purpose is to guide you through your first steps and introduce you to other developers working on similar topics. Take your time to work through the checklist below and tell us a little bit about yourself by filling the following introduction section (click on the pencil symbol above to edit this description). Finally, please let us know if you have any ideas how to improve this onboarding procedure and the provided documentation.


## Brief introduction of the new team member
<!---
This is of course completely up to you. Feel free to share with us watever you like.
However, to give you some inspiration, here is a list of things that might be of interest for others:
Your name, affiliation, office location, background (field of study, prior experience with coding), field of research (fluid/solid/coupled problems) and favorite soccer club (just joking).
-->
To be filled by the new team member.


## Checklist for the new team member
<!---
Tick the box as soon as a task is completed (either by inserting an "x" in edit mode or clicking on it in view mode).
-->
- [x] Register an account on LRZ GitLab (you wouldn't be here without it :wink:)
- [ ] Sign the BACI user agreement
- [ ] Complete the [brief introduction of the new team member](#brief-introduction-of-the-new-team-member)
- [ ] Read through our [README](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/blob/master/README.md) and follow the instructions to
   - [ ] Set up your GitLab account
   - [ ] Get the code
   - [ ] Configure git including the git hooks
   - [ ] Build the code and run some tests for verification
- [ ] Read through our [CONTRIBUTING GUIDELINES](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) and
  - [ ] Set up your Integrated Development Environment (IDE)
- [ ] Browse through some open issues and merge requests to get a first impression
- [ ] Browse through the [Wiki pages](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/wikis/home) containing a loose collection of further helpful information


## Checklist for the BACI group owners
<!---
Tick the box as soon as a task is completed (either by inserting an "x" in edit mode or clicking on it in view mode).
-->
- [ ] Add new team member to the GitLab group baci_developers
- [ ] Update the [baci_developers.json](https://gitlab.lrz.de/baci/baci/blob/master/utilities/git_hooks/baci_developers.json) file of all valid file maintainers
- [ ] Assign and @mention an experienced "Baci buddy" to help with git, the first issue, first commit, ...


## Interested Parties
<!---
If there's anyone particular you think should be notified, feel free to @mention them here.
-->
@baci/baci_developers
